So from the start we're first going
to create a variable, oops, sorry,
this pop up is the instance.
So by default this does just nothing,
we don't have an instance yet hopefully.
But if we do require a new one
we wanna set the instance equal
to the new instance that we just created.
Now if we do see that there is
already an instance when we create
a new instance we just throw an error.
So throw a new error, you can only
create one single database connection.
Then we have the connection here, but we
actually just want to say we always just
use the same URI and we know what that is.
So this connection can just
be an object dot freeze.
And right now connection is a singleton.
We make sure that there's only ever one
single instance, throw an error if it's
not, but most likely we will never
really cuz we aren't exporting it.
So it's not like other files can import
this database connection class without
the singleton now.
So we can then do export
default connection.
So really we would only ever see
this error if within this file,
we maybe say new DB database connection.
But I mean, hopefully you won't do that.
So yeah, database is now a singleton.
>> What are the pros and
cons of instantiating the object from
a class versus directly defining
the object in this pattern?
>> In this case we could
have just created an object.
However since we're also
using that URI here, so
in this case this connection,
actually I will open it up, sorry.
I keep forgetting to
open up a new Steglitz.
So for an object let's see what
this would have looked like.
Const, database, connection,
object dot freeze.
So we want to have a URI here.
Maybe what we could do
is create a function
that takes URI, so then we have connect.
URI has been connected and
we have a disconnect.
So DB is disconnected.
And then we can just have
that URI here if we want to.
So now this could have worked so
now the connection could be is database
connection and then we pass the URI
here which is this Mongo DB,
Cuz this returns an object right away.
This is an arrow function that immediately
implicitly returns an object here.
So that also could have been the case.
It was just easier to refactor this
with the class that was already there.
So now we can do export
default connection.
So yeah.
>> I have one question.
So you mentioned that explicitly
creating singletons is less
necessary now because now ES 2015
modules are singletons by default,
could you say a little
bit more about that?
>> For sure.
>> So for example, I'm just going to
use the same file that we have here.
I'm just going to create a counter.
So we have counts but default is zero.
Now if we wanted to have maybe
a function that's increments,
we actually want to export this.
So this returns return plus, plus count.
So this returns the counts incremented
by one and maybe we also want to have
an export function decrement return minus,
minus count.
And then also let's just have an export.
So I'm just gonna create another file,
I'm going to import this counter
module into files in that case.
So file1, file 2 or I could just,
I'll keep index here.
So import counter increment
from counter.js.
Now I can do increments and
then log the counter.
Right, I forgot.
Like I said I always forget to do this,
I type module.
It's count.
[INAUDIBLE] I am here.
Increments, not increments.
Okay, so right now count is two.
But if we were to also import this and
say file 1,
we will just do something
pretty similar so
we are going to Import increment here and
just increment it twice.
And then in index, I might also import,
say, import file1.
So what this does is it immediately
imports the file when we run this code and
it also executes this file.
But within this file we
also increment count twice.
So now you can see that count is four.
So we import file 1,
which also imports the singleton module.
We didn't declare
an actual singleton here,
we just used a module we export it counts,
we export it increment and decrement.
And you can see that even though we only
incremented it twice here because we
import file 1, which also increments
it twice, count is now four.
And this is usually kinda what they
mean with side effects as well.
Because it may not always be obvious
that within file 1 we are incrementing
the count by two.
So then you're login count you're like,
why is it not two?
I only incremented twice.
So this could easily happen with
those side effects that you may not
always be aware of.
So yeah, just make sure that if you
ever run into an issue like that,
this might be the problem.
I've definitely had that before.